

I came to D/s late in life and truth be told, my experience is still somewhat limited, but thus far it has been intuitive, satisfying and natural. You may be surprised when I say that my approach to dominance is a natural extension of my experience as a professor at a research university. Surprised? That is probably because you, like most people, thing of professors as teachers. Indeed, most of the time, when I tell someone that I am a professor the first question they ask is "What do you teach?". I invariably have to explain that teaching is actually a small part of what I do.

Let me tell you that most professors at research universities do very little teaching. At a modern research university professors don't get hired to teach. They get hired to perform leading edge research, to create and fund research groups and to mentor the next generation of world-class researchers. Day-to-day activities involve a surprising amount of politics, power, and mentoring of students and junior faculty. It's a unique envirionment.

What does this have to do with D/s? Let's take a look. First of all, in a research university there is a clear hierarchy of rank based on demonstrated achievement. There is deference to higher ranks for their achievements. Graduate students are at the bottom and are deferential to their professors. Professors who lead research labs or groups  (also referred to as principal investigators or PIs) have considerable control and power over the lives and future careers of the students in their group. The professors are often referred to as mentors and the students as mentees. The use of earned "honorifics" reflects the relationships. But instead of being referred to as "Sir" or "Master", we are referred to as "Professor" or "Doctor". The deference is generally 24/7 unless permission is given otherwise. Americans are somewhat more relaxed about honorifics than the rest of the world.

It would be an interesting exercise to compare a professor's research group with a BDSM household. I would expect parallels.  PIs have different leadership styles. Some are gentlemanly and some are sadists -- no kidding!

In academia we don't train our students to be more deferential. We don't (normally) use humiliation or corporal punishment to train students. (I can’t say I ever used a crop on a student ... although some deserved it.) And certainly there is no physical interaction.  We train our students to become better versions of ourselves. We are most proud of the students who go forth and surpass us in their achievements.This reflects well on us.  

Why can't serious mentoring be part of a Dom's/Master's interaction with their sub?  I have heard lip-service paid to this idea, but from what I've seen, most Doms or Masters don't actually have much to offer their subs/slaves beyond sexual and psychological fulfillment. This is normal and OK for the bulk of the D/s M/s population. After all most D-types are average humans and most s-types are average humans. But for some of us, this is not enough and a different path is possible. There are a few of us who think differently and our vision of a Dominant or a Master pays much more than just lip service to the notion that we are mentors to our subs or slaves.  All this brings me to my philosophy.

##What I believe##

I believe that when I take a sub/slave under my wing, it is my responsibility to provide not just emotional and sexual rewards, but also mentorship, structure and a real education grounded in my unique professional experiences in science, technology, business, sports and art. I see my role as a Dominant and would-be Master as a natural extension of my role as a University Professor. There is mix of pleasure and psychological games that enrich the educational experience in a manner that is not socially acceptable in more conventional educational environments. It is of course a bit of an experiment.  

Some of the educational material is super basic and dead simple. For example, my subs should know European dining etiquette, how to properly hold chopsticks, how to properly sit in Seiza, how to write a business letter, how to deal with conflict and difficult personalities, and the psychology and nuances of verbal communication.

I have a deep internal need to make a difference in the lives of the young women in my circle.  Sometimes this has required out-of-the-box thinking. In at least one case, I guided a young woman to professional psychotherapy, which I sponsored. It made a huge difference in her life and I found it immensely satisfying to have been the instrument of change.

I believe that part of the reason that my sub wants to be with me is to create positive change in their life.  Anyone can train a sub/slave the idiosyncratic skills required to please their Dom or Master sexually. But when the time comes for the partners to move on, what difference was made?
